---
title: "2025"
date: 2025-12-31
categories:
  - blog_meta
tags:
  - blog
---

Today I am reflecting on the year 2025. I try to avoid my personal life on this blog but this year has been more eventful than most.

My first son was born this year, we said goodbye to a feline friend, my vehicle was totaled, AI tools have made big changes in my day to day work, and I have renewed my interest in photography with a Sony mirror-less camera.

## Homelab

This year has been about doing more with less. In the homelab, I have shut down my Kubernetes cluster for a while. Currently I am running a homelab with:

- Raspberry Pi 3b that hosts Adguard Home for DNS filtering
- Raspberry Pi 4 that hosts Wireguard VPN server, Caddy reverse proxy, Gitea, and n8n
- Raspberry Pi 5 that hosts Home Assistant
- Rapsberry Pi 5 that runs nothing but apcupsd and prometheus exporter in garage
- Synology 4 bay NAS, 14 TB usable RAID 1, Plex, and Navidrome
- Backup Ubuntu NAS, 4 TB usable RAID 1, and VM with containers such as Kanboard, actual budget, excalidraw, it-tools, Portainer, Prometheus exporters (Blackbox, SNMP, etc), my own containers, and Postgresql servers
- Mac Mini m4 that hosts Caddy reverse proxy, Adguard Home + sync server, Grafana stack with Loki and Prometheus, and remote desktop target from my macbook
- Ubiquiti Networks Unifi network switches, gateway, UNVR, and PoE cameras.

The most important equipment is my NAS and UNVR.

I have all of my photos and documents in a secure server and I can back up important archives to the cloud. The UNVR manages Security Cameras, sensors for doors, and records motion events.

## AI tools

In the homelab, Opencode along with local models running on Ollama can get you running LLMs on your own hardware and even write code with your own hardware.

I think the best AI coding tool at the end of 2025 is Claude Code from Anthropic along with the Opus 4.5 model.

## Beyond 2025

I do not know what the future holds but if it is like the previous year we are in for another wild ride.

As far as my homelab goes, I want to get Kubernetes up again and remove my VM that just has a bunch of random containers. With recent massive price increases for computer memory, I do not intend to purchase any hardware any time soon.